improved devfile overview (#79)
devfile/docs: docs/modules/user-guide/partials/con_devfile.adoc

[id="con_devfile_{context}"]
= About devfiles

[role="_abstract"]

.How to use devfiles

> Devfiles are YAML files, and they simplify your development process. In your IDE, devfiles tell you which best practices to apply to take your development project from source code to running application. Using the instructions given by devfiles, you can automate your current, manual processes. A devfile can take in the repository hosting your application source code. You can use the devfile to build your code, run your application on your local container, and then deploy your application to cloud-native containers.

Author: SMEs:

Doc reviewers had a good question on where devfiles give their suggestions: 
```I don't quite understand how devfiles do that. Do you open them in your terminal or in your IDE?
How does the devfile talk to the developer, is basically my question. How does it provide instructions?```

I think it's in the IDE. Am I correct? If not, where do users see devfiles' suggestions?

Reviewer: It is the tools and IDEs that understand/support devfiles that do the work. Devfile captures instructions on how to do it so that all tools and IDEs behave the same when setting up the dev environment.

Author: Thanks, Elson, made the change.

Any SME reviewer, please see if I addressed this concern in the latest commit, thanks!

.Features and benefits of devfiles

> Devfiles give guidelines and instructions for enhanced development processes. Devfiles use the command line interface (CLI)  tool, `odo`, to build run, and deploy your application. By using odo, devfiles provide consistent patterns of behavior for applications written in different languages and create workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can create any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. If you create multiple workspaces, you can share your devfile with different teams. By sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, you can ensure that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, deploy behaviors.

Author: SMEs:

Another good question from doc review, 
```does a devfile tell me best practices or does it automate software builds? Or both?```

I think it does both...but I'm also not sure how a devfile can on one hand give users suggestion for end-to-end development, but on the other hand, devfiles can build, run, and deploy and automate manual processes.

Reviewer: This section sounds like only `odo` uses devfiles. `odo` is just one of the examples of the tools that use it, therefore, our wording should reflect that.

For the SME question above, devfile captures the best practices and the steps for doing the development. Devfiles itself is not a tool so it does not execute those build and run, etc. It is the tools that translates the best practices and automation steps and execute them during development.

Author: Thanks, Elson, made the change.

Any SME reviewer, please see if I addressed this concern in the latest commit, thanks!

[id="con_devfile_{context}"]
= About devfiles

[role="_abstract"]

.What a devfile does for you

> Devfiles are YAML files, and they simplify your development process. Devfiles capture instructions on how to set up your development environment and provide these instructions to your tools and IDE. The tools and IDE understand the instructions and support devfiles in order to take your development project from source code to a running application. By using devfiles, you can guarantee consistent patterns of behavior for applications written in different languages and using different tools. Devfiles also provide automation steps to your tools and IDE so that they can automate your current, manual processes. Using the recommended best practices from the devfile, the tools and IDE can: take in the repository hosting your application source code, build your code, run your application on your local container, and then deploy your application to cloud-native containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use devfiles to automate and simplify your development process. With devfiles, you record the instructions for configuring and running your software build environment as a YAML-formatted text file. Then, optionally, you can distribute those instructions to other software build tools and IDEs that support devfiles. Finally, you run the devfile instructions to configure and build a running application from a development project. You can also use devfiles to provide consistent software build processes across different languages and tools. 
```

Reviewer 2: It might be accurate or inaccurate--so look at this suggestion critically--but this is what I think the original was saying.

Author: Rolfe, this is a great re-write, thank you for taking the time to make these changes :) I'm definitely going to commit a lot of what you have written here. However, before I commit all of it, I would like a SME to confirm the accuracy of some of your rewrites (it's cool to see how you interrupted it, so I know what my content is conveying to users!) 

@elsony or @maysunfaisal do either of you (or any other SME reviewer) agree with the accuracy of the above changes? Specifically, the following lines:
```
With devfiles, you record the instructions for configuring and running your software build environment as a YAML-formatted text file. Then, optionally, you can distribute those instructions to other software build tools and IDEs that support devfiles. Finally, to automatically configure and build a running application from a development project, you run the devfile instructions.
```

Reviewer 3: it sounds very abstract to me IMO

Author: Thanks, Maysun, in which case, I'll commit the changes.

.Benefits of devfiles

> With devfiles, you can make workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can create any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. If you create multiple workspaces, you can share your devfile with different teams. By sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, you can ensure that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, deploy behaviors.

Reviewer 2: With devfiles, you can make workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can create any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. If you create multiple workspaces, you can share your devfile with different teams. By sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, you can ensure that each team has the same user experience and build, run, deploy behaviors.

> Use devfiles so that you have the following features:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Devfiles have the following features:
```

* Guidance for using runtime images
* Example code
* Build and CI commands
* Deployment options

> Use devfiles to help you with the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Devfiles have the following benefits:
```

* Reduce the gap between development and deployment
* Find available devfile stacks or samples in a devfile registry
* Produce consistent build and run behaviors

.Roles that use devfiles

> Stack providers use devfiles to develop their runtime stacks once and then use these runtime stacks across different tools. Therefore, with devfiles, you do not need to build and maintain custom development tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stack providers use devfiles to develop their runtime stacks once and then use them across different tools. Therefore, with devfiles, you do not need to build and maintain custom development tools.
```

> Tool providers use devfiles to build runtime support for each runtime. The devfile runtime teams create the devfiles that can be used to build and run applications on their servers, giving you more time to work on your tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tool providers use devfiles to build runtime support for each runtime. The devfile runtime teams create the devfiles for building and running applications on their servers, giving you more time to work on your tools.
```

> With devfiles, developers do not need to set up the environment for building and running their applications. Instead, you have the flexibility to use different tools, like Che and `odo`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With devfiles, developers do not need to set up the environment for building and running their applications. Instead, you have the flexibility to use different tools, like Che and odo.
```

.How to work with devfiles

* To access the devfile stacks so you can begin creating container workspaces, see link:https://github.com/devfile/registry/tree/main/stacks[devfile registry stacks].

> * To write your own devfile stack so you can begin using devfiles in your application development, see xref:authoring-stacks.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To write a devfile stack so you can begin using devfiles in your application development, see xref:authoring-stacks.adoc[].
```

[id="con_devfile_{context}"]
= About devfiles

[role="_abstract"]

.What a devfile does for you

> You can use devfiles to automate and simplify your development process. With devfiles, you record the instructions for configuring and running your software build environment as a YAML-formatted text file. Then, optionally, you can distribute those instructions to other software build tools and IDEs that support devfiles. Finally, to automatically configure and build a running application from a development project, you run the devfile instructions. You can also use devfiles to provide consistent software build processes across different languages and tools. 

Reviewer: Consider to change "Then, optionally, you can distribute those instructions to other..." to "Then, optionally, you can distribute those devfiles to other..."

Reviewer: We uses terms like "software build environment", "software build tools", "software build processes". Is the word "software" redundant? Isn't software is implicitly in the context of our docs? I am not sure if there is a reason for us to explicitly say software in this case for which we don't typically call that out on our docs.

Author: Thanks for the sentence change suggestion. And good catch, Elson, with the unneeded usage of "software." I've made the changes, thanks!

.Features and benefits of devfiles

Devfiles give guidelines and instructions for enhanced development processes. Devfiles use the command line interface (CLI)  tool, `odo`, to build run, and deploy your application. By using odo, devfiles provide consistent patterns of behavior for applications written in different languages and create workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can create any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. If you create multiple workspaces, you can share your devfile with different teams. By sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, you can ensure that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, deploy behaviors.

Using devfiles, you have the following features:

* Guidance for using runtime images
* Example code
* Build and CI commands
* Deployment options

Use devfiles to help you with the following:

* Reduce the gap between development and deployment

> * Set up a registry for finding and hosting stacks

Reviewer: Devfiles themselves don't set up a registry. Maybe we can say something like "Find a list of available devfile stacks or samples in one or more centralized location(s) by looking up the devfiles available in a devfile registry." (reword if needed)

* Produce consistent build and run behaviors

See the following example of a simple devfile:

> .A minimal devfile with one single project

Reviewer: Although this is a minimal devfile example, I am not sure if this is a good example to showcase what has described above since this devfile only provides the project information without using any of the features described in the benefits list above.

====
[source,yaml]
----
schemaVersion: 2.1.0
metadata:
  name: petclinic-dev-environment
  version: 1.0.0
projects:
  - name: petclinic
    git:
      remotes:
        origin: "https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic.git"
      checkoutFrom:
        revision: main
----
====

.Roles that use devfiles

Stack providers use devfiles to develop their runtime stacks once and then use these runtime stacks across different tools. Therefore, with devfiles, you do not need to build and maintain custom development tools.

> Tool providers use devfiles to build runtime support for each runtime. The devfile runtime teams build and run applications on their servers, giving you more time to work on your tools.

Reviewer: Consider changing "The devfile runtime teams build and run applications on their servers, giving you more time to work on your tools." to "The devfile runtime teams create the devfiles that can be used to build and run applications on their servers, giving you more time to work on your tools."

With devfiles, developers do not need to set up the environment for building and running their applications. Instead, you have the flexibility to use different tools, like Che and `odo`.

.How to work with devfiles

> * To access the devfile stacks and images so you can begin creating container workspaces, see link:https://github.com/devfile/registry/tree/main/stacks[devfile registry stacks].

Reviewer: Remove "and images"

[id="con_devfile_{context}"]
= Overview of devfiles

[role="_abstract"]

.How devfiles work

> As a YAML file, devfiles simplify the development process. Devfiles tell you the steps you must take to get your application up and running from a source code to an actual product.When you download a devfile, it assesses your application development lifecycle, then provides you strategies and best practices for end-to-end application development. Devfiles do not force you to use new workflows nor tools, but rather, provide you instructions to automate your current, manual processes. For example, a devfile can take the repository hosting your application source code, build the code, run the application on your local container, then deploy the application to cloud-native containers. Unlike many development tools, devfiles can build, run, and deploy, automating many of your manual processes and simplifying your end-to-end development.

Author: SMEs, please see this paragraph and let me know if my understanding and communication of devfiles here is correct, thanks!

Author: See the revised paragraph in the new commit, `addressed doc review` :)

> As a YAML file, devfiles simplify the development process. Devfiles tell you the steps you must take to get your application up and running from a source code to an actual product.When you download a devfile, it assesses your application development lifecycle, then provides you strategies and best practices for end-to-end application development. Devfiles do not force you to use new workflows nor tools, but rather, provide you instructions to automate your current, manual processes. For example, a devfile can take the repository hosting your application source code, build the code, run the application on your local container, then deploy the application to cloud-native containers. Unlike many development tools, devfiles can build, run, and deploy, automating many of your manual processes and simplifying your end-to-end development.

Author: Thanks, Eva :) I've made your suggestions. Good question about where devfiles provide the instruction. I _think_ it's in the IDE. I've added that information and will direct SMEs' attention to it so they can confirm. 

I hear you about anthropomorphism. The thing is, I want to convey how much manual processes devfiles can take on and how they can do a lot of the development work. Unfortunately, I've run into a rut of overuse of anthropomorphism. I've made some tweaks. What do you think now?

.Features and benefits of devfiles

> Devfiles provide guidelines and instructions for enhanced development processes. Devfiles uses the command line interface (CLI)  tool, odo, to execute the actions: build run, deploy. By using odo, devfiles provide consistent patterns of behavior for applications written in different languages and create workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can make any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. Creating multiple workspaces lets you share your devfile with different teams. Sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, ensures that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, deploy behaviors.

Author: SMEs, please see this paragraph and let me know if my understanding and communication of devfiles here is correct, thanks!

Author: See the revised paragraph in the new commit, `addressed doc review` :)

> Devfiles provide guidelines and instructions for enhanced development processes. Devfiles uses the command line interface (CLI)  tool, odo, to execute the actions: build run, deploy. By using odo, devfiles provide consistent patterns of behavior for applications written in different languages and create workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can make any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. Creating multiple workspaces lets you share your devfile with different teams. Sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, ensures that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, deploy behaviors.

Reviewer 4: I'd write to build, run, and deploy (your project, your source-code, your app (no idea what exactly)). This is shorter and more concise.

> Devfiles provide guidelines and instructions for enhanced development processes. Devfiles uses the command line interface (CLI)  tool, odo, to execute the actions: build run, deploy. By using odo, devfiles provide consistent patterns of behavior for applications written in different languages and create workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can make any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. Creating multiple workspaces lets you share your devfile with different teams. Sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, ensures that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, deploy behaviors.

Reviewer 4: Sharing a single devfile across multiple teams (is the comma here correct?), ensures that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, (and) deploy behaviors (of xy).

> Devfiles provide guidelines and instructions for enhanced development processes. Devfiles uses the command line interface (CLI)  tool, odo, to execute the actions: build run, deploy. By using odo, devfiles provide consistent patterns of behavior for applications written in different languages and create workspaces composed of multiple containers. In these containers, you can make any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile. Creating multiple workspaces lets you share your devfile with different teams. Sharing a single devfile across multiple teams, ensures that each team has the same user experience and the same build, run, deploy behaviors.

Reviewer 4: I'm pretty sure odo should be written as code, in ascii `odo`.

> Leverage the following devfile features:

Reviewer 4: "Devfiles provide the following features" maybe.

> Leverage the following devfile features:

Author: What do you think of my revisions in this paragraph? Like the previous paragraph, I considered your notes on anthropomorphism, and more importantly, user focused documentation :)

* Guidance for using runtime images
* Example code
* Build and CI commands
* Deployment options

Use devfiles to help you with the following:

* Reduce the gap between development and deployment
* Have a registry for finding and hosting stacks
* Produce consistent build and run behaviors

> * Allow easy devfile customization

Reviewer 4: I'd just use "devfile customization". The logic of your list makes the user the one who allows easy customization and why wouldn't he allow it?

Author: I agree. But for consistency, I want each bullet to start with a verb. What do you think about "Customize devfiles" like how I've made the change in the new commit?

> For a visual of how simple a devfile is, see the following YAML:

Author: Good catch. I got caught up in "selling" devfiles :P What do you think of the revision? 

Also, do you think this example is necessary? 

I only want to keep this example if we think it actually adds something significant and meaningful to the module. Otherwise, I'm happy to remove it.

.A minimal devfile with one single project
====
[source,yaml]
----
schemaVersion: 2.1.0
metadata:
  name: petclinic-dev-environment
  version: 1.0.0
projects:
  - name: petclinic
    git:
      remotes:
        origin: "https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic.git"
      checkoutFrom:
        revision: main
----
====

.Roles that use devfiles

Stack providers use devfiles to develop their runtime stacks once and then use these runtime stacks across different tools. Therefore, with devfiles, stack providers do not need to build and maintain custom development tools.

> Tool providers use devfiles to build runtime support for each runtime. The devfile runtime teams build and run applications on their servers, giving tool providers more time.

Reviewer 4: maybe it would be nice to specify what tool providers need more time for.

With devfiles, developers do not need to set up the environment for building and running their applications. Instead, developers have the flexibility to use different tools, like Che and odo.

.How to work with devfiles

> * To access the devfile stacks and images so you can begin creating container workspaces, see the link:https://github.com/devfile/registry/tree/main/stacks[devfile registry stacks].

Reviewer 4: Articles in front of the links work only for the first two bullet points, and also only if you add the description in the square brackets. That looks better than having .adoc at the end anyway, doesn't it? 
You could keep the articles for the last two points by adding "guide". For example: see the [Migrating to Devfile v2] guide.

Author: I removed the articles `the` before the links. Here's how the links render. There's no `adoc` in the rendered version: 
<img width="881" alt="Screen Shot 2021-07-06 at 3 04 58 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70717303/124653715-a1105080-de6b-11eb-9d77-05f31f656fe8.png">

* To write your own devfile stack so you can begin using devfiles in your application development, see the xref:authoring-stacks.adoc[].
* To migrate an existing devfile to the most updated version, see the xref:migrating-to-devfile-v2.adoc[].
* To understand the schema attributes of devfiles, see the xref:api-reference.adoc[].

.Additional resources

[role="_additional-resources"]

> If you want to ask questions, view open issues, raise concerns, or communicate directly with the devfile team, see the link:https://github.com/devfile/api[devfile GitHub repository].

Author: As a whole, I want this overview to convey that devfiles are simply and will simply the development process, since that's the beauty of devfiles! 

Do any of the reviewers think that message is communicated?

> If you want to ask questions, view open issues, raise concerns, or communicate directly with the devfile team, see the link:https://github.com/devfile/api[devfile GitHub repository].

Reviewer 4: "To ask questions"
